subscription cr blogpost (#958)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2023-XX-XX-updated-subscription-api/index.md

--
title: "Introducing a new subscription API"
author:
  name: Korbinian Stoemmer, PO @Kyma"
tags:
  - kyma
  - eventing

redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/subscription-api"
---

As part of the Kyma team working on the Eventing components, I'd like to let you know that we're updating the Subscription API used to subscribe to events in Kyma.

> In this blog post, I'd like explain the how and the why.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post, I will explain the how and the why.
```
(the previous sentence also had "I'd like...")

## Why change the subscription CR

At the moment, Kyma supports two backends for Eventing:
- NATS Jetstream, a high-performance messaging infrastructure running inside the Kyma cluster

> - EventMesh, an external service used to interconnect multiple applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- EventMesh, an external service used to connect multiple applications
```
Do we need "inter" ?

Both backends have their own benefits and limitations:

> NATS Jetstream is only accessible within the Kyma cluster. This brings the limitation that all events handled by it must originate from the cluster and must be subscribed to in the cluster. The benefit is that those events never leave the cluster.

Reviewer: Just trying out whether a list would look nicer in the rendered version

```suggestion
- NATS Jetstream is only accessible within the Kyma cluster. This brings the limitation that all events handled by it must originate from the cluster and must be subscribed to in the cluster. The benefit is that those events never leave the cluster.
```

> EventMesh allows subscribing to events that to not originate from the cluster, and it also means that you can send events there and subscribe to them in a different, connected application. The drawback is that in order to subscribe to such events, your workload must be exposed to the internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- EventMesh allows subscribing to events that do not originate from the cluster, and it also means that you can send events there and subscribe to them in a different, connected application. The drawback is that in order to subscribe to such events, your workload must be exposed to the internet.
```

With those different use cases in mind, it makes sense that EventMesh imposes stricter naming conventions on the CloudEvents. With NATS Jetstream as the active backend, we are in control of these limitations.

Previously, we followed the same strict rules on both backends. While this simplified switching from one backend to the other, it also introduced confusion because we internally ensured that events that did not match these limitations were modified to match the criteria.

Example:

> An application sent events of event type `object.operation`. To allow sending such event to EventMesh, we had to introduce a prefix as part of the EventMesh requirements. Then, we sent those events to the Eventing backend with eventtype `prefix.object.operation`. When these events were delivered to our internal subscribers, they were not of type `object.operation` (the original eventtype), but they were delivered with eventtype `prefix.object.operation`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An application sent events of event type `object.operation`. To allow sending such event to EventMesh, we had to introduce a prefix as part of the EventMesh requirements. Then, we sent those events to the Eventing backend with event type `prefix.object.operation`. When these events were delivered to our internal subscribers, they were not of type `object.operation` (the original event type), but they were delivered with event type `prefix.object.operation`.
```

--
title: "Introducing a new subscription API"
author:
  name: Korbinian Stoemmer, PO @Kyma"
tags:
  - kyma
  - eventing

redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/subscription-api"
---

As part of the Kyma team working on the Eventing components, I'd like to let you know that we're updating the Subscription API used to 
subscribe to events in kyma. In this blog post I'd like explain the how and the why.

## Why change the subscription CR

At the moment kyma supports two backends for eventing:
- NATS Jetstream, a high performance messaging infrastructure running inside the kyma cluster
- EventMesh, an external service used to interconnect multiple applications

Both backends have their own benefits and limitations:

> NATS Jetstream is currently only accessible within the kyma cluster. This means all events handled by it must originate from the cluster 

Author: Valid point.

It increases the security as the external attack surface is reduced (workload is not exposed to the internet). It also allows the user to deliberately not follow best practices in the eventing area (huge event payloads, confidential data in event payloads ... )

> NATS Jetstream is currently only accessible within the kyma cluster. This means all events handled by it must originate from the cluster 

Author: .. and to answer the initial question. no, we dont need currently.

and must be subscribed to in the cluster. The benefit is, that those events would never leave the cluster. EventMesh allows subscribing to events 
that to not originate from the cluster and it also means that you can send events there and subscribing to them in a different connected 
application. The drawback is, that in order to subscribe to such events your workload needs to be exposed to the internet.

> With those different usecases in mind it makes sense, that EventMesh imposes more strict naming conventions on the cloudevents and with 

Author: CloudEvents is only a format for events. Its up to the user of the format to impose regulations to make it easier for the involved parties to interact with each other. EventMesh is meant to be used in our ecosystem. Thats why they have strict rules about how a source, or an event-type should look like. -> Just by looking at the source and the type you can have a better understanding of what this event actually means

NATS Jetstream as the active backend we are in control of these limitations.

Previously we followed the same strict rules on both backends. While this simplified switching from one backend to the other it also introduced 

> confusion as we internally ensured that even events that did not match these limitations were modified to match the criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Example:

> An application sent events of event type `object.operation`. In order to allow sending such event to EventMesh we had do introduce a prefix 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An application sent events of event type `object.operation`. To allow sending such event to EventMesh, we had to introduce a prefix as part of the EventMesh requirements. Then, we sent those events to the Eventing backend with eventtype `prefix.object.operation`. When these events were delivered to our internal subscribers, they were not of type `object.operation` (the original eventtype), but they were delivered with eventtype `prefix.object.operation`.
```

as part of the EventMesh requirements. We sent those events then to the backend with eventtype `prefix.object.operation`. When these events 
were delivered to our internal subscribers they were not of type `object.operation` (the original eventtype), but they were delivered with 

> eventtype `prefix.object.operation`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Modifying the subscriptions that way also limited to which events you could subscribe. It was only possible to subscribe to events that had 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modifying the subscriptions that way also limited to which events you could subscribe. It was only possible to subscribe to events that had the prefix as is was configured in the Kyma cluster. 
```

What's the meaning of "as it was configured..." here - does it mean "like it was configured...", or "because it was configured..." ?

Author: its meant: we had to use the prefix that was configured in the kyma cluster, but is also had to be configured in the cluster... i guess the answer is then: 'like it was configured'

Reviewer: Thank you! So basically we could also say: 

```suggestion
Modifying the subscriptions that way also limited to which events you could subscribe. You could only subscribe to events that had the prefix that had been configured in the Kyma cluster. 
```

Author: so simple, yet so much easier to understand :D

the prefix as is was configured in the kyma cluster. 

> The updated Subscription CR simplifies this for the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simplify this for our users, we are now introducing the updated subscription CR.
```

Btw, when do you capitalize "Subscription CR"? This is the only occurrence with a capital letter, all the others are in lower case. For simplicity, I'm adjusting it here to keep consistency.

Author: it is the name of a custom resource. Is this then 'Subscription' or 'subscription' ?

Reviewer: We [capitalize custom resources](https://kyma-project.io/community/guidelines/content-guidelines/02-style-and-terminology/#capitalization) - or technically, we use camel case, but if it's not a compound noun, the only bump of the camel is in the first letter so it simply looks capitalized.

## The new subscription CR

The idea of the new subscription CR is "you get what you ask for (when possible)".

> For eventing with the NATS backend it is not required to send cloudevents with a prefix and also it is not required to specify the prefix in the subscriptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Eventing with the NATS backend, it is not required to send CloudEvents with a prefix and also it is not required to specify the prefix in the subscriptions.
```

If you send events of type `object.operation` you can now subscribe to `object.operation` and you will receive events of type `object.operation`

For eventing with EventMesh as the active backend you can do the same thing. 
But for EventMesh we support now also subscribing to events, that have NOT been sent using kyma.

> In this case you can now configure subscriptions that will not be internally modified to match our requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, you can now configure subscriptions that will not be internally modified to match our requirements.
```

> This way you can subscribe to `myownprefix.object.operation` and we will create the corresponding filter on EventMesh. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This way, you can subscribe to `myownprefix.object.operation`, and we will create the corresponding filter on EventMesh. 
```

## Summary

> With the introduction of our new v1alpha2 subscription CR you can now subscribe to internal events without the need of a prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the introduction of our new `v1alpha2` subscription CR, you can now subscribe to internal events without the need of a prefix.
```

> At the same time you can now finally subscribe all your cloudevents on eventmesh and not be limited to events sent by kyma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the same time, you can now finally subscribe all your CloudEvents on EventMesh without being limited to events sent by Kyma.
```
